*CS50 2019 (Harvard) - David Malan*

## Binary

#### What is CS?
- "Solving Problem"
- Input -> [     ] -> Output

#### Computer language
- Binary: 0 1
- Computer does not use ten digits. but just two digits
- This binary numbers can represent large numbers.

#### bit
- "Binary digit"
- The only resource for computer - electricity
- on or off = 1 or 0
- 8 bits = 1 byte
- Transistor : a tiny switch in the computer. This represent values 0 or 1 (off or on) to store information.

## Expressing Information

#### Characters
- An agreement was made (focused on american English) ==> ASCII
- ASCII uses just 8 bits.
- ex) 'A' is represented by 65.
- A super set of ASCII ==> Unicode
- Unicode uses up to 32 bits and can express so much more patterns.

#### Image, Video, Music 
- Computers express images by using the RGB system.
- combine red, green, blue values to express each pixel 
- A video is actually a sequence of images passing by so fast. 
- Music can be represented by just note, duration, and volume of sounds. 
- All these things can be reduced to 0s and 1s. So computer can express them.

## Algorithms

- "set of instructions to solve problems"
- Time matters for efficiency.
- has functions, conditions, Boolean expressions, loops.

## C
### Compiler
- "Compile": 4 steps are taking place under the hood.
  1) preprocessing: #include lines get transformed into the actual relevant codes of the header file
  2) compiling: turning the source code into an assembly code
  3) assembling: turning the assembly code into a machine language (0s and 1s)
  4) linking: Combining all the written codes and libaries included into one machine language file

## Memory
- 16진수를 사용하여 주소값을 매김
- cf) 16진수의 유용성: 2자리의 16진수는 1byte의 2진수로 변환 가능
- &: Get the address of a certain variable
- \*: Access the address of a certain variable
#### 포인터의 사용
```C
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
   int n = 50;
   int *p = &n;
   printf("%p\n", p);   // 0x7ffee6e1e8
   printf("%i\n", *p);  // 50
}
```
